README.md, before:

# 🍅 Katchup
 
Katchup is a small script to simplify updating katapult bootloader and klipper firmware. It's a very simple script.

It looks for `.config` files in the `~/printer_data/config/katchup/klipper` directory, then builds Klipper and flashes the appropriate mcu.

To add an mcu to katchup,

1. `cd ~/klipper && make clean`
2. `make menuconfig`, select the appropriate options for your mcu, and quit
3. `cp ./.config ~printer_data/config/katchup/klipper/{mcu}-{canID}-{usbID}.config`

You may omit the canID or usbID field, just not both of them! If you are flashing a `host process`, it must be named `host.config`. Other mcus may have a canID and/or a usbID (`ebb42-663e1edfe87f.config` or `pico-0e49609cf3bd-usb-katapult_rp2040_45503571290B7B88-if00.config`). If they have both, it indicates the mcu is functioning as a canbus bridge, and will be knocked off the CAN network and flashed via USB. For usb only devices, the config needs a double `-`, eg, `pico--usb-katapult_rp2040_45503571290B7B88-if00.config`. You may omit the usbID from CAN only devices. As long as the mcu isn't a host process, it doesn't matter what you call the mcu, it's just to make it easy to identify.

Run `~/katchup/katchup.sh`. Katchup checks to see if there are any changes to the klipper repo before flashing, so it's adviseable to *not* pull changes to klipper in another fashion. Should you find that you already have, you may invoke `ketchup.sh` with the `-n` flag (for "no-pull").

`katchup.sh` requires either `-a` ("application") or `-b` ("bootloader") at invocation. 

`ketchup.sh` can also flash a single mcu via the `-m {mcu}` flag. For the file `ebb42-663e1edfe87f.config`, you would type `katch.sh -am ebb42`. Full names are required: `katch.sh -am ebb` would not match.

I never knew there wasn't a standard katchup emoji until now.

Commit message:

add help message restructure argument parsing, change katalpult to deployer flash

README.md, after:

# 🍅[^1] Katchup
 
Katchup is a small script to simplify updating katapult bootloader and klipper firmware. It's a very simple script. It looks for `.config` files in the `~/printer_data/config/katchup/klipper||katapult` directory, then builds Klipper (or Katapult) and flashes the appropriate mcu.

## Usage

```
❯ ./katchup.sh -h
Usage: katchup.sh [options]
Options:
  -b  Flash katapult instead of klipper
  -h  Display this help message
  -m  Specify a target mcu to flash, requires an argument
  -n  Skip the pull step (no pull)
```

Run `~/katchup/katchup.sh`. Katchup checks to see if there are any changes to the klipper repo before flashing, so it's adviseable to *not* pull changes to klipper in another fashion. Should you find that you already have, you may invoke `katchup.sh` with the `-n` flag (for "no-pull").

`katchup.sh` can also flash a single mcu via the `-m {mcu}` flag. For the file `ebb42-663e1edfe87f.config`, you would type `katchup.sh -am ebb42`. Full names are required: `katchup.sh -am ebb` would not match.

## Configuration

To add an mcu to katchup...

1. `cd ~/klipper && make clean`
2. `make menuconfig`, select the appropriate options for your mcu, and quit
3. `cp ./.config ~printer_data/config/katchup/klipper/{mcu}-{canID}-{usbID}.config`

The canID or usbID field may be omitted, just not both! If flashing a `host process`, it must be named `host.config`. Other mcus may have a canID and/or a usbID (`ebb42-663e1edfe87f.config` or `pico-0e49609cf3bd-usb-katapult_rp2040_45503571290B7B88-if00.config`). If they have both, it indicates the mcu is functioning as a canbus bridge, and will be knocked off the CAN network and flashed via USB. For usb only devices, the config needs a double `-`, eg, `pico--usb-katapult_rp2040_45503571290B7B88-if00.config`. The usbID must be omitted from CAN only devices. As long as the mcu isn't a host process, it doesn't matter what you call the mcu, it's just to make it easy to identify.

## Flashing Katapult

Katchup may be configured for katapult by substituting `katapult` for `klipper` in the above steps. Katapult `.config`s **MUST** be configured to bulid the deployer (I think). Invoke `katchup.sh` with the `-b` option to flash katapult.



[^1]: I never knew there wasn't a standard katchup emoji until now.
